We can now add categories to an article.
But if we uncheck one of these boxes to remove an existing category from an article the categories aren't
removed only new ones added.
When we set the categories related to an article in addition to inserting new records into the article
category table we also need to delete existing ones.
If a category is removed from an article let's do this once we've inserted the new Ricardos in the set
categories method.
Let's start with some Eskew well containing a delete statements with the WHERE clause that matches the
article idae to the current article.
If the idees array passed into this function is empty.
In other words the farm was submitted and no categories were selected.
Then this esky well is enough to delete all the records in the article category table for this article
so we can prepare it.
And execute it.
If the I.D. array isn't empty then we need to just delete any records where the category I.D. isn't
in the array of I.D..
We can use the not in operator for this so we need a list of the category I.D. separated by commas.
So if the I.D. array isn't empty.
First let's create an array of question mark characters which will be the place holders.
The array fail method returns an array filled with a specified number of elements we need as many place
holders as there are I.D. So we use the count method to get the number of elements in the idees array.
So we can get an array of question marks like this assigning this array to the place holders variable.
Then let's spend an additional condition to the you well.
And we can add the question marks by calling implode as we did earlier.
Which will join the question marks into a string separated by commas.
Before we continue let's print out the ESC u l string so we can see what it looks like.
If now I uncheck an existing category and submit the form there's the ESC U L statement with a condition
on the article I do e and the not then operator followed by the place holders.
Now we can delete this and once we've prepared the statement we need to bind the parameters.
We can use the same method we're doing up here fa the insert statement.
Looping around the category I.D. and binding the values based on the position in the string.
Let's try that out.
This article currently has three associated categories.
If I uncheck some of them and submit the farm.
The records in the join table are deleted so we can add and delete categories for an article and the
set categories method will insert and delete records in the join table accordingly.